The submitted article represents a solid research finding in the field of lifespan inequalities, focused on the region of Central and Eastern Europe. The studied file of countries represents a known exception from the epidemiologic transition theory and the extension to the study of lifespan disparities seems needed and novel. The authors use advanced methods of lifespan dispersion decomposition and its suitable graphical representation. 
The text is well structured, however we surprisingly find the main findings already at the end of the introduction. The first section of Results should be called „Age specific rates of mortality improvement“. Different analyses use different distinction of periods, ranging from 3 to 5. Authors explain that period were defined statistically but the final selection doesnt correspond to what is described in footnote No.4. 
The decomposition method should be better explained. It is rather unclear what is the threshold age (mentioned later in results section) which differentiates ages which compress / expand the mortality and how is it computed.
I have a concern regarding the inclusion of infant mortality in the analysis. According to the authors, including infant mortality is important because of its overall impact and because excluding it would require arbitrary censoring of the age scale. Infant mortality in the Eastern countries has however undergone huge artificial changes due to updates of diverse non-standard definitions of live births (which are not corrected in the HMD data). These changes may impact life expectancy and lifespan dispersion differently. Including infant mortality is also in conflict with the aim of the paper, which focuses at adult/elderly mortality and particularly at the effects of alcohol.   
The cause-of-death analysis is too focused on the issue of alcohol. It is of no dispute that alcohol played important role in mortality fluctuations in the period and region of ex-USSR, but it has played much smaller role in central Europe (Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic). Moreover, these countries have reduced their mortality dramatically after 1990 but the alcohol consumption levels remained the same or even increased, suggesting that alcohol had a very minor role in the recent changes (which were attributed uniquely to progress in cardio-therapy). It is also quite problematic to separate the rest of circulatory diseases from IHD and stroke, as it is known, that many Eastern countries code a large part of IHD or stroke as „atherosclerosis“.
In the decomposition analyses (by age), it is likely that positive contributions of the elderly to the mortality compression can be linked to poor data quality in the ex-USSR and Bulgaria in the 1960s (underestimation of old-age mortality leading to artificial worsening afterwards). This should be mentioned in the discussion/limitations.
In the Limitations section, the author discusses several approaches to the measurement of alcohol mortality effects. This limitation could be avoided if authors gave less importance to the alcohol as the main (and only) factor for past and recent mortality changes in Central and Eastern Europe.
I would like to see a bigger discussion on the added value of the lifespan dispersion indicators. It seems that if lifespan inequality is measured across the entire age range, its value depends on two processes: premature and old-age mortality, and mortality compresses or expands when these two processes move in opposite directions (and how they balance in the summary measure). The allegedly unexpected results for Central and Eastern Europe are thus rather witnesses of different sensitivity of e0 and e-dagger to mortality age-patterns. 
